>> Richard Feldman: Now this is a pattern
that I'm using with authentication here.
But this is a general pattern with
JavaScript interop in general.
Whenever you're working on an application
that needs to interface with JavaScript,
whether it's through a port, through
a custom element, if you haven't seen
Luke Wesley's talk on custom elements,
highly recommend that by the way.
Any case where you have
stateful JavaScript logic,
you gotta decide who's
gonna own that state.
Either your JavaScript code is going to be
subservient to the Elm code and say yeah,
you know what,
I happen to know this JavaScript code
is not doing its own state management.
It's going to completely delegate and
to entrust all the values
that it gets from Elm.
In which case, great,
you can say Elm is the source of truth.
Whatever's in the model is reality, and
that JavaScript code is going to rely on
that, and at best, it's going to cache it.
Or you can do the reverse.
And I think the reverse is
a lot more common in practice.
Which is to say,
I'm interacting with this JavaScript code.
Being JavaScript code,
it's probably got its own state.
It's probably not a big
bucket of pure functions,
cuz that's not as normal in
JavaScript as it is in Elm.
So given that this JavaScript code is
already going to manage its own state,
all I can do is make it worse if I also
separately manage my own state and
now have a competing source
of truth with JavaScript.
We'll have a much better time if I say,
you know what,
JavaScript's managing its own state,
great.
I am just going to listen
to what it's got going on.
And I'm just gonna do my best to
keep my own caches as fresh and
unstale as possible,
using techniques like this,
where we're saying every single time your
state changes, I wanna know about it.
I wanna update my cache.
I'm not gonna directly mess
with my own cache at all.
I'm just gonna be a passthrough.
All I'm ever gonna do is store the latest
value that I heard about from that
stateful JavaScript, whatever it might be.
>> Richard Feldman: So by doing this,
we can prevent as many of these sort of
state synchronization bugs as possible,
by sort of thinking in terms of who's
the cache, who's the source of truth?
And we want to have as few
sources of truth as possible, and
have the hierarchy be the one that is
the most reliable is sort of at the top,
and everybody else is just
caching that at best.
So to recap,
we started off by talking about
impossible states that we can end up in.
Multiple sources of truth is one
possible way we can do that.
We looked at the tab var, where we had
each of the tabs potentially thinking that
they were the one that was active.
And when we shift that to say
there's only source of truth,
we model each of these tabs as a different
variance in a custom type, and
all we can have is one source of truth for
which one is active.
That prevented that impossible
state from happening,
which actually did come
up in practice before.
I talked about derived data, and how when
we start off with something that's like
a timestamp in the database, it goes
through a number of transformations before
it makes it all the way to
being rendered for the user.
In a lot of cases, we can't avoid caching
that in the model, which is fair enough.
But if we can, it's best to do that
derived data in the view, not storing it
in the model where it can potentially
end up as a competing source of truth.
We talked about authentication and
how, again,
ultimately the source of
truth is on the server.
And if we disagree with the server,
we're out of luck.
So we're gonna cache stuff for performance
reasons, so that we don't have to have
the users enter their credentials every
single time they wanna do something.
But we're gonna be aware that
those things are caches.
And we're gonna take as many steps as we
can to prevent those caches from getting
stale by doing things like every time
local storage updates, updating the model,
and not ever changing the session in the
model through any other means other than
refreshing that cache.
And finally, we talked about
the implications on JavaScript interop.
So if we're running into the same
situation, where we have something that
we're interoperating with on the job
description side that is stateful,
let it own the state.
Treat the Elm stuff as a cache
of that state, and trust it for
as much state as possible.
Because the consequence of having
competing sources of truth is much more
severe than the minor inconvenience
of having to ask it for
its state on a regular basis.